fix(emoji-mart): simplify EmojiPicker & emojiSearchIndex (#2117)
GetStream/stream-chat-react: docusaurus/docs/React/release-guides/emoji-picker.mdx

---

> id: new-emoji-picker-integration

Reviewer: I would maybe change the name of the file so that it is clear that this is a migration guide for v11

sidebar_position: 3

> title: EmojiPicker Integration (11.0.0)

Reviewer: Maybe also the title could be changed to something more v11-ish? Will we be including those changes like removal of deprecated components?

keywords: [migration guide, upgrade, emoji picker, breaking changes, v11]
---

import GHComponentLink from '../_docusaurus-components/GHComponentLink';

## Dropping support for built-in `EmojiPicker` (with breaking changes)

> By default - our SDK would ship with `emoji-mart` dependency on top of which our `EmojiPicker` component is built. And since the SDK is using `emoji-mart` for this component - it was also reused for reactions (`ReactionsList` and `ReactionSelector`) and suggestion list (`MessageInput`). This solution proved to be very uncomfortable to work with when it came to replacing either of the mentioned components (or disabling them completely) and the final applications using our SDK would still bundle certain `emoji-mart` parts which weren't needed (or seemingly "disabled") resulting in sub-optimal load times. Maintaining such architecture became a burden so we're switching things a bit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, our SDK would ship with `emoji-mart` dependency on top of which our `EmojiPicker` component is built. The SDK used `emoji-mart` for this `EmojiPicker`, reactions (`ReactionsList` and `ReactionSelector`) and suggestion list (`MessageInput`). This solution proved to be very uncomfortable to work with when it came to replacing either of the mentioned components (or disabling them completely) and the final applications using our SDK would still bundle certain `emoji-mart` parts which weren't needed (or seemingly "disabled") resulting in sub-optimal load times. Maintaining such architecture became a burden so we're switching things a bit.
```

## Changes to the default component composition (architecture)

> Component now comes as two-part "bundle" - a button and an actual picker element. The component now holds its own `open` state which is handled by the button.

Reviewer: We could explain, which component. I am not sure.

{/* TODO: extend once you have the component ready */}
{/* TODO: mention that we're dropping the EmojiContext */}

> ## Switching to opt-in mechanism (BREAKING CHANGE)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Switching to the opt-in mechanism (BREAKING CHANGE)
```

We made `emoji-mart` package in our SDK completely optional which means that `EmojiPicker` component is now disabled by default.

### Reinstate the `EmojiPicker` component

Add `emoji-mart` to your packages and make sure the package versions fit our peer-dependency requirements:

```bash

> yarn add emoji-mart@^5.5.2 @emoji-mart/data@^1.1.2 @emoji-mart/react@^1.1.1

Reviewer: Cannot see them in package.json
